# Issues and Decision Log

### **Work stream:** FSPIOP Change Control Board

Last update - 2019/06/11

### Table Of Content

- [1. Document Purpose](#1-document-purpose)
- [2. Status Summary](#2-status-summary)
- [3. Active List](#3-active-list)
- [4. Completed List](#4-completed-list)

## 1. Document Purpose
___

The purpose of this document is to keep a log of all issues raised and desisions made by the Change Control Board(CCB) forum.

## 2. Status Summary
___

|Status|Count|
|---|---|
|Open||
|Assigned|13|
|Deferred||
|Closed|6|

## 3. Active List
___

|Serial Number|Track Number|Status |Original Workstream|Title|Description|Next Steps|Related Action Items|Responsible|Deferred|Date Identified|Deadline|Date Updated|Date Resolved|Resolution/Decision Notes|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1.|3|Assigned|Use case choreographies|Reporting Processing Errors to the Payee DFSP|Reporting Processing Errors to the Payee DFSP - related to checking clearing result on the Payee side. This was discussed earlier as well|Submit proposal to the CCB; Talk to the design/dev team on Mojaloop about GET calls for clearing check||Michael||2018/06/03||2018/12/19||<ul><li>6/13: Issue proposed to CCB</li><li>7/03: Discussion ongoing in the e-mail thread (RJ, Ritvik: Prefer to have status quo for v1, roll up changes for v2)</li><li>7/17: Michael: had conversation with the dev team, will update the CCB in the coming week with findings</li><li>7/31: Michael: Need some more time to respond</li><li>8/28: Need to find a way towards resolution on this issue</li><li>9/11: Action item on Sam to work on this for resolution</li><li>10/09: Deferring to next week from the CCB side</li><li>10/23: Discussions ongoing over e-mails, offline.</li><li>12/19 - 07/9: On-hold for the time being</li></ul>
|2.|6|Assigned||Identifying quote messages associated with Transfer messages||<ul><li>1. Follow GitHub issue #14</li><li>2. Discuss the issue</li><li>3. Canvass impact of this with Adrian in relation to Interledger</li></ul>||Michael, CCB||2018/12/10||2019/06/11||<ul><li>12/11: Initial proposal made to the group</li><li>12/19: Update discussed during the meeting as well as via emails. To be confirmed with Miller regarding adding quote ID to the transfer message, but otherwise the rest of the CCB group is on-board with making this change.</li><li>3/5: Discussions happening over e-mail. Ready to make a proposal</li><li>5/7: Will resume next week</li><li>5/14: Will be followed-up this week</li><li>6/11 - 7/9: Dependant on GitHub issue #14 - "echo data"</li></ul>
|3.|8|Assigned||Changes for cross-network|<ul><li>Changes Proposed here:</li><li>https://github.com/mojaloop/cross-network/blob/master/part2-johannesburg-april-2019/api-changes.md</li><li>https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/issues/13</li></ul>	Review, Feedback regarding the issues #13, #14 on GitHub by June 18th	|||CCB||2019/02/19||2019/07/09||<ul><li>2/19: Initial proposal made on the call and discussed. Adrian to move forward with making the proposal based on the template.</li><li>3/5: Follow-up with Adrian regarding changes. Ready to be proposed to the CCB</li><li>3/19: Adrian explained thinking regarding a few proposed changes - to send out an email with the example, context. To explore SubId type</li><li>5/7: To share with group the updated proposal and discuss with Adrian during the next CCB meeting</li><li>5/14: CCB team to review and provide feedback by next meeting</li><li>6/11: Discussions in progress on GitHub issues #13,#14. Voting to be taken during the next CCB meeting if there is no consensus and if there is, then move to Solution Proposal.</li><li>7/9: Next CCB meeting dedicated to discuss cross currency / border issues. Meanwhile team to review issues the coming two weeks.</li></ul>
|4.|9|	Assigned||Case sensitivity/insensitivity issue of HTTP headers|The proposal is to have clarity by adding test to either API Definition or the Signature document or both to remove ambiguity regarding the case sensitivity of HTTP headers	Feedback on Solution Proposal by June 18th. Acceptance (if not blocking issues)|||Henrik||2019/02/19||2019/07/09||<ul><li>2/19: Initial proposal made on the call and discussed. Henrik to move forward with proposing the change using template. No opposition on the call to move ahead.</li><li>3/5: Updated proposal sent, almost agreed. To be Voted on next week</li><li>3/19: Moving to solution proposal</li><li>5/7: Henrik to submit the Solution Proposal soon</li><li>6/11: FInalize solution proposal. If there's no feedback by other members before 6/18: The solution proposals is accepted.</li><li>7/9: Discussion on addition of Solution proposal to the version1.1 of API Definition"</li></ul>
|5.|10|Assigned||Clarity on whether or not padding is required while Base64URL Encoding|<ul><li>This change request is to make the requirement for padding in Base64URL encoding a) explicit in the API definition and the Signature document, and b) consistent between the two.</li><li>GitHub issue - https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/issues/16</li></ul>|Solution Proposal, Feedback|||Michael||2019/02/19||2019/07/09||<ul><li>2/19: Initial proposal made on the call and discussed. Michael to move forward with making and sharing the proposal based on the template.</li><li>3/5: Michael to follow-up with proposal</li><li>5/7: Will resume next week</li><li>5/14: Will be followed-up this week</li><li>6/11: Discussion in progress, GitHub issue - https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/issues/16 - Discussed. Needs an implementation that contains items like this that include additional description.</li><li>6/25: Proposal to have a new document regarding "Implementation" which will have more implementation related details to add more clarity, consistency.</li><li>7/9: In the previous CCB meeting, it was decided to have an 'implementation guide' document as a Supporting doc. A Request has been made to Mowali, an early implementer of the API to find out if theirs can be made publicly available, so that the CCB can use it as a starting point."</li></ul>
|6.|11|Assigned||Tool for sequence diagrams|The team to make a decision on the tool to use for sequence diagrams (~75 of them). Michael proposed to use something like plantuml that is text based and is supported across formats and easy to distribute and upate|Feedback , Review on https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/issues/10, https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/pull/17||Michael, Sam||2019/02/19||2019/07/09||<ul><li>2/19: Initial proposal made on the call and discussed. Michael to propose this on email to discuss this further.</li><li>3/5: Michael to propose the end-to-end sequence diagram using PlantUML by the next CCB meeting.</li><li>3/19: Initial sequence diagram for End-to-end example to be shared with team - though it has a few changes</li><li>5/7: An initial proposal diagram to be shared (which is a bit different from the current accepted sequence).</li><li>6/11: A sample end-to-end transfer diagram using plantuml is shared in a PR - https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/pull/17</li><li>6/25: PlantUML with minor enhancements.</li><li>7/9: PlantUML as base but discussion ongoing. issue - https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/issues/10</li></ul>
|7.|12|Assigned||Clarify usage of FSPIOP-Destination in GET /parties|<ul><li>So the change request would be two-folded:</li><li>Correct Figure 5 in API Definition.</li><li>Update text in API Signature about only including FSPIOP-Destination when the Destination FSP is known.</li></ul>|Solution Proposal||Henrik, Michael||2019/02/21||2019/07/09||<ul><li>3/5: Seems to have unanimous agreement regarding the issue and Change Proposal is ready.</li><li>3/19: Moving to Solution Proposal</li><li>5/14: Henrik to submit the Solution Proposal</li><li>6/25: Solution Proposal made to limited audience</li><li>7/9: Solution Proposal to be made to the CCB</li></ul>
|8.|13|Assigned||CCB Charter|Matt working internally regarding advice on the Draft CCB Charter; To share with the CCB team soon|Version 0.4 of the CCB Charter to be shared with team||Matt||2019/03/05||2019/07/09||<ul><li>3/5: Initial proposal to be sent a week ahead of the CCB meeting. To be discussed in the following CCB meeting</li><li>3/19: Initial draft still in progress, to be shared with CCB team soon.</li><li>5/7: Intial draft V0.1 shared on April 12th, feedback provided. Added a few items of discussion as issues on this list. A draft V0.2 was submitted with some accepted changes. To be discussed with Matt regarding discussions that happened on</li><li>5/7 and publish the next version V0.3</li><li>5/14: CCB charter version 0.3 is in progress based on earlier feedback and to include a section regarding IP rights. Other issues are addressed in the following items</li></li>6/11 - 7/9: Most issues from the feedback have been addressed. Couple of issues pending are branding/re-branding of the API and Intellectual Property related text. To be proposed soon.</li></ul>
|9.|14|Assigned||Proposal to use GitHub in an Open Forum for change requests, proposals etc|A proposal was made to use GitHub for CCB discussions regarding issues to avoid repetition at various forums and for visibility.|Continue Pilot process as the CCB Charter is being finalized||CCB||2019/03/19||2019/07/09||<ul><li>3/19: Initial proposal made by Adrian</li><li>5/7: To be coupled with CCB Charter adoption</li><li>5/14: Until the transition is made to GitHub links are to be kept up-to-date for issues as relevant but both forms of proposals to be supported till then.</li><li>6/11 - 7/9: Mostly accepted and currently it is being followed to discuss open issues. To be formalized along with the charter</li></ul>
|10.|15|Assigned||Use Open API as the source for FSPIOP API Specification|Proposal to use the Open API version of the FSPIOP API Specification as the Source|<ul><li>Raise a Pull Request (PR)</li><li>Discuss the issue of 'precedence in case of conflict/discrepency'</li></ul>||CCB, Sam, RJ||2019/03/19||2019/07/09||<ul><li>3/19: Initial proposal made by Adrian</li><li>5/7: Proposal to make the Swagger part of the official document set is accepted. Confirmation email will be sent and changes made</li><li>5/14: Open API to be moved to be part of the official document set on mojaloop-specfication repo via a PR. Topic about which document (Open API Spec or the API Definition) takes precedence in case there is a discrepency between the two - this is to be continued.</li><li>6/11: Review the issue once the API is part of the Official document set. A question came up regarding which API is to be used, a literal translation of the API Defintion or a more implementaiton friendly one (one that's currently used)</li><li>7/9: Investigation in-progress to find any element from the API Definition that cannot be expressed in the API</li></ul>
|11.|16|Assigned||Branding of Mojaloop. FSPIOP API. CCB Role|<ul><li>Clarity regarding the Mojaloop Branding - Is it just for the Open Source Switch implementaiton or the FSPIOP API?</li><li>GitHub Issue: https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/issues/15</li></ul>	|Review, Feedback regarding the issue #15 on - https://github.com/mojaloop/mojaloop-specification/issues/15||Matt||2019/04/23||2019/07/09||<ul><li>4/23: Brought up by Henrik as part of CCB Charter Review</li><li>5/7: Proposal made by Matt to adopt the name of Mojaloop API for the current FSPIOP API; Matt to make formal proposal soon</li><li>5/14: Formal proposal to be made by Matt (via email or a GitHub Iusse)</li><li>6/11: Continue discussion on GitHub issue</li><li>7/9: This has two issues. We have consensus on one of the items that is to use "Mojaloop" as the brand name for the Suite of APIs that are part of a Switch / Hub (FSPIOP, Settlements, Operations). However, the second aspect of renaming the FSPIOP API is still in progress. "FSP Interoperability API" has been proposed.</li></ul>
|12.|18|Assigned||Proposal for versioning document and resources separately|Henrik's proposal to maintain versions for the API Definition and resources separately|To have a separate discussion regarding moving to next version using the current (accepted) solution proposal||Henrik, Sam||2019/04/24||2019/07/09||<ul><li>5/7: Initial proposal made by Henrik on April 24th. Discussed on 5/7, no opposition to this, moving to Solution proposal stage</li><li>5/14: Proposal accepted, moving to next stage offline</li><li>6/11: Since we haven't yet had a version after the initial version 1.0. A proposal was put forward to discuss this even further and then arrive at a consensus or decision before adopting the next version.</li><li>7/9: This has been discussed and unananimously agreed (among the attendees) to use version 1.1 for the next version and also use the model proposed to use different versions for Resources and Document (Also to truncate version updates for each major version and move to appendix)</li></ul>
|13.|19|Assigned||Proposal for extending error codes 4001, 5001 to bulk and quotes|Initial proposal|Solution Proposal updated||Henrik||2019/04/24||2019/06/11||<ul><li>5/7: Initial proposal made by Henrik on April 24th. Discussed on 5/7, no opposition to this, moving to Solution proposal stage</li><li>5/14: To continue on email based on proposal and feedback provided</li><li>6/11: Moving to Solution Prposal regarding the bulk transfers part (not quotes, discussion in email)</li></ul>

**Table 1** -- The table list all the **Assigned**/**Open** items.

## 4. Completed List
___

|Serial Number|Track Number|Status |Original Workstream|Title|Description|Next Steps|Related Action Items|Responsible|Deferred|Date Identified|Deadline|Date Updated|Date Resolved|Resolution/Decision Notes|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1.|1|Closed|Use case choreographies|API Signature issue|Resolve the API Signature issue in the specification|Decide on strategy - confirm or debate Henrik's proposal to allow identifying fields that should not be included in the Signature||||13/02/2018||13/03/2018|2018/05/01|Issue identified, work around followed for Testing phase. Need to discuss documentation changes needed (and which documents to be updated)|
|2.|2|Closed|Use case choreographies|Cross-Implementation|Address the requirement for cross implementation|Submit proposal document to the CCB||Michael||2018/06/03||2018/12/19|2019/03/05|<ul><li>6/13: Issue proposed to CCB</li><li>7/03: Michael, Adrian working on the next version</li><li>7/17: Michael working on the next draft</li><li>7/31: Michael planning to send out a next version within a week (working with Adrian on this)</li><li>8/28: Michael shared the next version (0.2) of this document on 8/24</li><li>9/11: Second version released by Michael and this was discussed at the Mojaloop Phase2 wrap-up event. Adrian working on next updates, a scenario or prototype model</li><li>10/09: Adrian working on the next version, targeting next week; Henrik's questions yet to be addressed, updates to be provided.</li><li>10/23: Work on next version still in progress. Michael to inform Adrian to keep Henrik's feedback in consideration. Atleast one member from each CCB member team should be invited to an onsite meeting regardign cross-implementation discussion (in Dubai, Dec 1st week)</li><li>12/19: When all of CCB team is present, would like to have a detailed discussion to go over the current proposal</li><li>2/19/19: Can we close this now as this has been discussed and the subsequent changes brought before the CCB?</li></ul>
|3.|4|Closed|Use case choreographies|Duplicate ID in PUT calls|Dealing with duplicate PUT calls where an initial PUT request comes with one message and another with same ID but different message|To check API Definition to see if there is a section that already address this if not determine next steps to add it||Henrik, Michael||2018/05/15||2018/10/23|2018/11/30|<ul><li>6/13: Issue reported that there is not information for dealing with multiple PUT calls from a DFSP with different messages but same ID; Henrik mentioned that most likely this was already addressed in the document and will confirm.</li><li>7/03: Henrik, Michael working on a proposal, to share with the CCB team</li><li>7/17: Email thread shared with CCB, Michael will respond to the responses.</li><li>7/31: To follow-up over e-mail</li><li>8/28: Change needs to be made in the Spec, no progress since last meeting</li><li>9/11: Michael to look into Henrik's comments regarding text to be added</li><li>10/09: Issue active and discussion onging over emails</li><li>10/23: Offline discussions ongoing, the group will be looped in the as soon as possible.</li></ul>
|4.|5|Closed||Refund support|An implementer of the system has a need for the Refund Use Case, so a request was made to find out the implementation status from the TSP partners (if they are ready, tested and if they have any issues with the Specification)|Find out from other TSP patners, the status of implementation||CCB||2018/07/31||2018/09/11|2018/09/11|<ul><li>7/31: Michael: asked status of implementation of the TSP partner members; Ritvik: Comviva has implemented and tested internally but couldn't do interoperability testing with the Switch.</li><li>8/28: Can be closed next week if everyone agrees (this was a status check initially)</li><li>9/11: Michael agrees to close this</li></ul>
|5.|7|Closed||Template for a Change Request|Template for a Change Request - for proposing changes to the CCB regarding Mojaloop Specification|Pilot||Henrik||2019/01/08||2019/01/08|2019/03/19|<ul><li>01/08: Michael proposed that we need to have a standard template for Change Requests. Henrik volunteered to provide the template proposal.</li><li>02/20: Henrik's proposed process and templates are adopted for now, and are being piloted (used for the next few Change Requests).</li><li>03/05: Change Proposal requests are looking good. The description for the Chagne Request and Solution Proposal templates to be added</li><li>03/19: Proposal to close - agreed</li><ul>
|6.|17|Closed||Proposal about time-frame for adopting the changes accepted by the CCB|Discuss the issue of proposing a timeline on adopting/implementing the changes accepted and published by the CCB|Discussion among CCB team members||Matt, CCB||2019/04/23||2019/05/14|2019/05/14|<ul><li>4/23: Brought up by Henrik as part of CCB Charter Review</li><li>5/7: Matt to do some research and CCB team to provide recommendations as well on this front. Will continue discussing this.</li><li>5/14: Based on the feedback given and research made, decided to drop this from the CCB Charter. Closing this now.</li></ul>

**Table 2** -- The table list all the **Deferred**/**Closed** items.
